[GIGA DIsplay Shield] Added 3D engine tutorial (#1386)
arduino/docs-content: content/hardware/10.mega/shields/giga-display-shield/tutorials/09.3d-engine-tutorial/content.md

---
title: GIGA Display Shield 3D Engine Tutorial 
description: 'Get started using a 3D engine with the GIGA Display Shield'
author: Benjamin Dannegård
tags: [Display, 3D, TinyGL]
---

## Introduction

> Using a 3D engine to construct and render objects can be a hardware heavy process. Now with the GIGA R1 WiFi, GIGA Display Shield and the TinyGL library this can be an easy process! The powerful GIGA R1 WiFi board can run the 3D engine while rendering it on the display shield, utilizing the touch interface of the display to move and interact with the rendered objects. This tutorial will show you how to make use of these features!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using a 3D engine to construct and render objects can be a hardware heavy process. Now with the GIGA R1 WiFi, GIGA Display Shield and the [TinyGL](https://github.com/arduino-libraries/TinyGL) library this can be an easy process! The powerful GIGA R1 WiFi board can run the 3D engine while rendering it on the display shield, utilizing the touch interface of the display to move and interact with the rendered objects. 

In this tutorial, we will show you how to make use of these features!
```

## Hardware & Software Needed

- [Arduino GIGA R1 WiFi](https://store.arduino.cc/products/giga-r1-wifi)
- [Arduino GIGA Display Shield](https://store.arduino.cc/products/giga-display-shield)
- [Arduino IDE](https://www.arduino.cc/en/software)

## Downloading the Library and Core

> The Arduino Mbed OS Giga Boards core contains most of the libraries you need to work with the shield's camera connector. To install the core for GIGA boards, navigate to **Tools > Board > Boards Manager** or click the Boards Manager icon in the left tab of the IDE. In the Boards Manager tab, search for giga and install the latest Arduino Mbed OS Giga Boards version, the [Arduino_H7_Video library](https://github.com/arduino/ArduinoCore-mbed/tree/main/libraries/Arduino_H7_Video) library is included in the core. Now open the library tab on the left, search for **TinyGL**, **LVGL** and **Arduino_GigaDisplaytouch**. Install these libraries as they are needed for the TinyGL example to work.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Arduino Mbed OS Giga Boards core contains most of the libraries you need to work with the shield's camera connector. To install the core for GIGA boards, navigate to **Tools > Board > Boards Manager** or click the Boards Manager icon in the left tab of the IDE. In the Boards Manager tab, search for giga and install the latest Arduino Mbed OS Giga Boards version, the [Arduino_H7_Video library](https://github.com/arduino/ArduinoCore-mbed/tree/main/libraries/Arduino_H7_Video) library is included in the core. 

To install the required libraries for this tutorail, search for **TinyGL**, **LVGL** and **Arduino_GigaDisplayTouch**. Install these libraries as they are needed for the TinyGL example to work.
```

> ## TinyGL

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## TinyGL Library
```

> The TinyGL library will enable us to run an engine that can render 3D objects on the GIGA Display Shield. TinyGL is based on OpenGL, meaning the objects that we want to be rendered are defined in a `.c` file. Let's take a closer look at these files!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The TinyGL library will enable us to run an engine that can render 3D objects on the GIGA Display Shield. TinyGL is based on OpenGL, meaning the objects that we want to be rendered are defined in a `.c` file. Let's take a closer look at these files!

- The source code for this library is available [here](https://github.com/arduino-libraries/TinyGL)
```
